# Level 199 - Week 1 - Frontend - Stretch Goals

Here are some additional tasks for you to complete should you finish everything in Level 100

You can work on them in any order

## 1) Ordering Results

When you load the data, order it so that the video with the most upvotes is at the top and least is are the bottom.

## 2) Data Validation

When a video is added, make sure that the title is not empty and that the url is a valid YouTube URL

## 3) Material UI

As a further stretch goal, consider adding the Material UI library

https://material-ui.com/

Material UI is a _Design System_ that can help you to design great looking websites and apps. When using a design system you should use the guidelines that they put in place. You can read more about these guidelines here:

https://material.io/

## 4) Unit tests

### Setup

As a further stretch goal consider adding unit tests checking that your components are adhering to the requirements. We have helped you get started by adding a couple tests to `client/test/App.test.js`. These would check that the page, after loading, contains enough `<iframe>` blocks, as well as whether the `Remove video` button works as expected, by decreasing the number of `<iframe>`s on the page. To run these tests type in the following command:

```
npm run test:client
```

Check the response, it will tell you if the tests have succeeded or not. It is likely that you will need to update the test to cater for how you have implemented your website. For example if you don't have a button that says `Remove video` but for example opted to put a little trashcan icon instead, you will need to change the sections where the code presses the `Remove video` button to instead find and press your trash icon on the page.

### Enable PR tests

Tests are useful to run every time you create a PR to make sure you don't accidentally add or change code that breaks existing functionality. You can go to `.github/workflows/run-client-tests.yml` and remove the comment from the line that says `pull_request:`. This will run the `npm run test:client` call every time you create a new PR blocking merging in case tests fail.

### Add new tests

You might want to add some new test cases. Here are some examples:

- Verify that the rating goes up / down when the user presses the Up Vote / Down Vote buttons
- Verify that the user cannot create videos with invalid URLs (if you have implemented point 2 above)

## 5) Prettying and linting

Apart from automated tests it is also usually a good idea to make sure that your code is formatted based on a single standard throughout, and also passes basic sanity checks. There are two projects that can usually help you with that:

- `prettier` is a formatter that makes sure that your code is formatted the same way throughout. For example all files use `tab` characters for indenting.
- `eslint` is a linter that checks the code for common coding mistakes and warns you if it encounters them.

Let's set up both of them!

### `prettier`

First install prettier into your `package.json` file:

```
npm install prettier --save-dev
```

Next you will need a `.prettierrc` file in the root directory. If you don't have a personal standard yet you can for example use this one: https://github.com/CodeYourFuture/cyf-final-project-starter-kit/blob/main/.prettierrc

You can now run prettier to check your files:

```
npm exec prettier -- --check .
```

And also to automatically fix them:

```
npm exec prettier -- --write .
```

If you don't want to type out these commands you can add them as `scripts` into your `package.json` file. For example you can add a line like:

```
  "prettier": "prettier --write ."
```

to the scripts section, and then you'll be able to automatically pretty your files by typing:

```
npm run prettier
```

### `eslint`

Installing `eslint` is similar, but to get the most out of it you will need to install multiple projects:

```
npm install eslint eslint-plugin-jsx-a11y eslint-plugin-react eslint-plugin-react-hooks eslint-plugin-jest @babel/eslint-parser @codeyourfuture/eslint-config-standard --save-dev
```

This will install `eslint`, and a couple plugins that help you with validating JSX code and React components, like proper `useEffect` usage.

You will also need to have multiple `.eslintrc.json` files. You need multiple ones as the client and server code needs different plugins.

- You should put the following `.eslintrc.json` file into your root: https://github.com/gla6-fp-team1/gaelic-project/blob/main/.eslintrc.json
- And the following one inside `client/.eslintrc.json`: https://github.com/CodeYourFuture/cyf-final-project-starter-kit/blob/main/client/.eslintrc.json

You should also create a `.eslintignore` file in your root directory with the following content:

```
dist/
```

This is because this directory usually contains compiled code - code that is easier to read by the machine, but not by humans. Therefore compiled code usually doesn't adhere to linting standards as it's not meant to look "nice".

Once you have everything in place you can run the linter to check for common code mistakes:

```
npm exec eslint .
```

You can also ask it to fix any issues it can autoamtically fix:

```
npm exec eslint -- --fix .
```

Same as for `prettier`, you might want to add these commands to your `package.json` for easier access.

### Checks during PRs

Similar to how we added automated checks during PRs for tests we can do the same for linter and prettier. We have already prepared the `.github/workflows/enforce-linting.yml` file. You should uncomment the `pull_request` line to enable the checks for your pull requests.
