# Level 350 - Week 2/B - Backend Deployment

By the end of this level you will have both your frontend and backend deployed to the internet, although they will not use each other.

## Netlify

If you have been following the setup steps of level 150 then Netlify should already be deploying your backend. However you still need to set up a link between your backend and the database.

First obtain your database connection string. For ElephantSQL you will need to open up your database's dashboard and check the URL field. It should look something like `postgres://xxx:somepassword@berry.db.elephantsql.com/xxx`

For Supabase open up your project, then go to Settings and Database. Scroll down on the page to see "Connection string" and click the "URI" button. The value should look something like `postgresql://postgres:[YOUR-PASSWORD]@db.fsdfgsdhjkfeyrta.supabase.co:5432/postgres`. You will need to change `[YOUR-PASSWORD]` to the password you set up when creating the database.

To do that open up your site confirugation in Netlify, and head over to "Environmental variables". Once you are there click "Add a Variable", "Add a Single Variable", and fill in with the following details.

* Key: `DATABASE_URL`
* Values:
  * Use "Same value for all deploy contexts"
  * Paste the value you obtained earlier for your database

Once you are ready click "Create variable". This will redeploy your application. Once that is done you should be able to access your API at:


```
https://<your-netlify-url>.netlify.app/api/videos
```

Use Postman and make sure you can use all of the APIs tou have created - listing videos, creating and deleting videos and rating them up and down.
