# Level 399 - Week 2/B - Backend - Stretch Goals

## 1) Ordered Data

When you return all of the videos from endpoint you should add an optional parameter that will change the ordering of the data

```sh
/?order=asc
```

and

```sh
/?order=desc
```

When you receive `asc` the videos should be returned in ascending order by the number of votes. i.e. starting with the lowest number of votes.

When you receive `desc` the videos should be returned in descending order by the number of votes. i.e. starting with the highest number of votes.

If no parameter is passed, the order should be by ID.

## 2) Automated tests

As a further stretch goal consider adding automated unit/integration tests checking that your backend endpoints are working as expected and adhere to the requirements.

### Setup

We have helped you get started by setting up a test runner for your backend systems and adding a couple tests to `server/api.test.js`. These tests would check that the list end view endpints work as expected.

First you need to set up the tests. To do that make sure you create a separate database for tests, for example let's call it `videorec_test`:

```
createdb videorec_test
```

Afterwards edit your `.env` file and change the `TEST_DATABASE_URL` to point to this database.

Note: we are using a different database to make sure that we don't accidentally modify your normal database every time that you run your tests.

Once you have set up the database settings you can now run the tests by calling

```
npm run test:server
```

Check the response, it will tell you if the tests have succeeded or not. As with the frontend tests it is possible you you will need to update the test to cater for how you have implemented your backend.

### Transactional tests

The test runner above is set up to have transactional tests. What this means is that whenever you start the testing session the code will reset your (test) database using the `initdb.sql` you have created in level 200. Afterwards it will run each test in a database transaction, rolling it back at the end of the test. Database transactions are a feature of most relational databases that allow you to run SQL commands in a temporary setting first and only if you are happy with the results will they be saved to the database. We use this feature during test runs as we ask the database to never save our changes at the end of the tests. This allows each test case to start with the exact same, empty database as every other test.

### Enable PR tests

Tests are useful to run every time you create a PR to make sure you don't accidentally add or change code that breaks existing functionality. You can go to `.github/workflows/run-server-tests.yml` and remove the comment from the line that says `pull_request:`. This will run the `npm run test:server` call every time you create a new PR blocking merging in case tests fail.

### Add new tests

You might want to add some new test cases. Here are some examples:

* Verify that the videos can be deleted
* Verify that the video rating can be modified up and down
